[Music]
when you were a kid what did you want to
be when you grew up a teacher doctor
scientist how about all of the above
plus some Ferdinand Fred to Mara
also known as the great imposter rose to
fame back in the 50s with his impressive
credentials only it wasn't exactly his
resume he was beefing up fred was born
in Massachusetts in 1921 as a kid he
loved playing tricks on people he
discovered his gift of manipulation when
he managed to trick a local candy store
owner into giving him free chocolate
smart kid since his dad was a projection
operator in a local movie theater
Fred grew up being surrounded by photos
of actors and movie stars
perhaps that was his inspiration for
things to come at age 16 Fred ran away
to join a monastery and become a monk he
left the monastery four years later and
decided to join the army but no sooner
had he started his training then he
realized he'd made a mistake and started
looking for a ticket out of there
well that ticket ended up being Anthony
ignol yeah Fred's tent-mate under ignol
his name Damara joined the Navy
well he was there he'd go through
university catalogs in his free time and
read the credentials of each professor
that's how he got the idea to steal a
different identity that would help him
become a teacher
he picked the name dr. Robert Linton
French who was an actual researcher at
Yale University at the time Damara even
managed to acquire all the documents he
needed to become dr. French such as a
birth certificate marriage license
university degrees and so on after he
got all these papers Fred set off for
his new adventure to expand his
knowledge and study philosophy and
ethics hmm ethics
how ironic but believe it or not he did
excel in these fields of study once old
Freddie was all studied up he started a
new life teaching psychology at a
university in Erie Pennsylvania under
dr. French's name of course but that
temporary career was short-lived as well
since he was obviously the type of guy
who gets bored easily soon enough he
left Erie and headed to Los Angeles
where he worked as a medical assistant
at a sanitarium looks like he made quite
a resume for dr. French in just a short
span of time now no surprises here being
a medical assistant wasn't the job for
him but he did acquire a lot of medical
knowledge that would benefit him later
on so after handing in his resignation
at the sanitarium the man of many
vocations moved to Washington State to
teach psychology at st. Martin's
University he really liked it there and
actually started settling down to his
new life but that's a big no-no for any
person who makes a living out of fraud
and this mistake would eventually come
back to bite him well in Washington
Damara even became friends with a local
sheriff frank Tamblyn perhaps he was
living under the philosophy of keep your
enemies closer but that didn't stop the
police from investigating this
ubiquitous dr. French one day his
sheriff buddy Frank showed up and
arrested him
tomorrow would then spend 18 months in
the San Pedro prison in California after
he completed his sentence he went back
home to Massachusetts but you know what
they say old habits die hard and soon
enough fred was right back at it again
his new persona was dr. Cecil Holman a
biologist from Kentucky
using this guy's credentials Fred got a
job as a research biologist at a Harvard
affiliated hospital but the restless
spirit got bored once again so he
bounced from Massachusetts to Maine and
then up to Canada where he started
studying theology and that's when Demara
became friends with dr. Joseph Cyr
during the time they spent together
dr. Cyr shared with Fred still under the
guise of the great biologist dr. Hammett
by the way his desire to get his
American medical license so the Canadian
physician asked his American colleague
for help with that Fred agreed and seer
gave damara
all his qualifications to take back to
Maine to get him that license
I guess you understand what a huge
mistake that was not long after that a
certain doctor C R would be enlisted as
a surgeon for the Canadian Navy that of
course was our imposter Fred tomorrow
with the docks papers so the spring of
1951 rolls around and the Navy surgeon
gets called to sail to Korea on the ship
Cayuga while on board he was able to do
minor routine treatments on the soldiers
but the real test was to come once they
landed in Korea there the false doctor
Cyr would end up doing life-saving
surgery on a soldier who had been
wounded in the chest by a bullet and
despite the fact that this guy had never
performed a surgery in his life let
alone one near the heart the procedure
was a success perhaps to his advantage
the ship's crew had witnessed the whole
thing which gained amara some points on
his medical credibility once on shore in
Korea Fred became very well known for
his charity work there naturally all the
stories of his successful surgeries and
good work
caught the attention of the media and
newspapers now imagine this the real dr.
Cyr read about his own medical
achievements abroad in the headlines
I'll bet that was a bit shocking anyway
he got in touch with the authorities
right away and the captain was forced to
send Fred back to Canada despite not
believing that his amazing surgeon was
an impostor given the fact that he'd
witnessed and experienced Fred's medical
successes firsthand after the Canadian
authorities had finally discovered
Tamara's true identity
they also found out about the other
identities he'd used he was then
deported back to the US where he
returned to his parents house broke as a
joke he was in desperate need for money
so he decided to do an interview for
Life magazine with the headline the fake
Navy doctor he thought this way he'd be
able to publicly apologize and share his
side of the story
after the interview he took a few
temporary jobs here and there that
helped him pay the bills until he
finally disappeared without a trace was
this the end of Fred de maras adventures
for good nope not at all
in 1955 he reappeared in Texas under the
guise of dr. Benjamin Jones he worked as
a professor for a while but moved on to
become a prison guard and here's how he
proved his manipulative genius you see
he knew that getting a job at the
Department of Corrections wouldn't be
easy so he purposely sent his
application to the wrong Department
then his application was forwarded to
the correct department making it look
like he'd gotten recommended by that
first one job seekers take notes
well the ingenious maneuver must have
worked because he got the job and became
lieutenant of the guards at one of the
prisons like with a lot of previous
false vocations Damara actually excelled
at this job too he was then promoted to
deputy warden however his new success
didn't last long and one of the
prisoners recognized him from his
interview with life before he even got
confronted he fled the prison it's now
the summer of
19:56 and the great impostor has
returned to maine for his new adventure
as english and latin teacher
martin god guard in unsuspectedly one of
the kids mom's had also read the life
magazine interview recognized the
teacher as a fraud and took matters into
her own hands she managed to trick the
trickster into leaving his fingerprints
on a drinking glass she then sent the
prints to the FBI and on February 14th
1957 damara
was arrested however he was only given a
two month probation period for teaching
without a license finally after that
Fred realized that his fame had already
gotten too big to be able to pull this
stuff off any longer
unfortunately or fortunately for the
identity theft victims he had to give up
the fraudster lifestyle due to his
health he became a chaplain in a
hospital in California and went on to
live a quiet life nobody really knows
why Fred damara had spent so many years
stealing identities perhaps it was the
rush the adventure or a thirst for
something new according to what he told
his own biographer it was all about
grabbing loose unused power lying about
and always opening up new ventures so
that you never encroach on anyone else's
domain that might explain how he was
able to do it but as for the why I guess
we can only speculate so why do you
think Fred de Moura stole all those
identities and work successfully in
these people's professions let me know
your theories down in the comments and
if you learn something new today then
give this video a like and share it with
your friends but hey don't go anywhere
just yet we have over two thousand cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life